in alhamd
so we continue with im's 40 Hadith we're
at the conclusion of Hadith number two
where the angel jiel is asking the
messenger of Allah
s then inform me about so the first
thing to notice over here is is this
concept ofan actually something known to
the or is it something that is unknown
to the sah and as is seen throughout
this Hadith the general meaning of these
Concepts was already known so when the
messenger of Allah sallallahu alaihi
wasallam was asked about Islam they
already knew the general meaning of
Islam when he's asked about IM they
already knew the general meaning of IM
and now he's being asked about and again
the same concept applies they already
had a general understanding of what the
term actually means now from a
linguistic perspective the the term
actually means two things it actually
means two things number one to show an
act of kindness or goodness to someone
so this is known as so Allah subhana wa
he tells us in the
Quran and show kindness to the people
just like Allah subhana wa ta'ala showed
kindness to you just like Allah T showed
kindness to you then the second meaning
of it means to do something proficiently
and it means something to do something
with excellence and this is the actual
meaning that is being portrayed In This
Very Hadith it is that second meaning to
do something proficiently and to do
something with Excellence now how did
the messenger of Allah sallallahu alaihi
wasallam actually go on to explain this
concept the messenger of Allah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam goes on to
explain it is that you should serve
Allah as though you could see him it is
to serve Allah as though you could see
him and even though you cannot see him
know that he sees you know that he sees
you this is how the messenger of Allah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam conveyed this
concept now there are quite a few points
that need to be explained over here
number one is that the messenger of
Allah sallallahu alaihi wasallam is
explaining the concept of motivation and
how each and every individual he will
need a motivation behind the act that he
does and for the believer the high
highest type of motivation and the best
type of motivation he will ever receive
is the motivation that Allah subhana wa
tala is watching him or that he can see
Allah subhana wa ta'ala or that he can
see Allah subhana wa ta'ala and this is
the highest type of motivation and what
the messenger of Allah sallallahu alaihi
wasallam is indirectly implying over
here is that if you want to see the
Muslim excel at his Peak if you want to
see a Believer excel at his Peak that is
when he is most cognitive of Allah
subhana wa tala that is when he is most
cognitive of Allah subhana wa tala
realizing that Allah subhana wa taala is
watching hearing and knows each and
every single thing that he feels says
and does that is when you will see the
Believers excel at their Peak that is
when you will see the Believers excel at
their Peak so that is point number one
thatan is when a person is the most
motivated how does he achieve that
highest level of motivation when he is
cognitive of Allah subhana wa taala
number two the second thing we want to
understand from this section of the
Hadith is are these two concepts the
same or are they one concept so the
messenger of Allahu alaihi wasallam
saying it is to worship Allah as though
you can see him and even though you
can't see him know that he sees you and
the scholars of Hadith they differed on
two opinions over here the first group
of Scholars they said no these are
actually two different concepts two
different concepts and the promoters of
this opinion that there are two
different concepts at the head of them
were
and they said that there are actually
two different concepts now what are the
two different concepts that they're
referring to the first concept that
they're referring to is what is known as
Al musah what is known as Al musah where
one is able to see Allah subhah wa taala
where one is able to see Allah subhah wa
ta'ala and when they talk about seeing
Allah subhah wa ta'ala this is not
seeing Allah subhana waa physically but
this is one being cognitive with his
heart and one seeing the signs of Allah
waala all around him and this is
something we'll explain in our third
pointal that is one able to see Allah
subhana wa tala in this world or not and
what is the difference of opinion on
that so what they're talking about Al is
that this is the highest level an
individual can ever reach in his uh
Islam it is the highest level that he
can ever reach that he sees the signs of
Allah subhana wa ta'ala all around him
and that he is always cognitive of Allah
subhana wa tala now they set some sort
of CR creran for this that how does an
individual know when he is at a level of
musah when when does he know that he's
reached this highest level they said
that two things are found inside the
slave of Allah subhana wa tala at that
time number one is that he will
generally do things out of love he will
generally do things out of love so it's
no longer out of fear anymore it is no
longer out of fear but rather it is done
out of love and number two the second
thing they mention is that within of
itself actually becomes enjoyable and
pleasurable that I with of itself
actually becomes enjoyable and
pleasurable and this is why you see the
messenger of Allah sallah alai wasallam
being truthfully able to
say that the coolness of my eyes meaning
that when I am at most rest and what I
enjoy the most is when I'm in prayer
when I am in prayer so these are the two
characteristics of that his acts of are
now done out of love and number two he
actually starts to enjoy the acts of
within of themselves and this is that
you are able to see the signs of Allah
subh wa tala all around you and that
you're conscious that Allah subhana wa
ta'ala is watching hearing and seeing
everything that you do now in important
point about Al over here is that this is
a level that one cannot always stay at
that this is something that where the
Iman of an individual will fluctuate it
will reach that point and then it has to
come down it is not physically possible
that an individual will stay at that
time at that point at all times where an
individual becomes void of sin where an
individual becomes void of sin so this
is something very important to
understand that last week when we were
talking about the fluctuation of Iman
this is the highest point of Iman that
he will reach that he is worshiping
Allah subhah wa ta'ala as though he can
see him as though he can see him now to
understand the true value of this
concept as as Believers we will only
understand its worth in the Hereafter we
will only understand its worth in the
Hereafter when we realize that the
greatest blessing of Allah subhana wa
taala upon us is the fact that we get to
see Allah subhah wa ta'ala is the fact
that we get to see Allah subh wa tala so
that is when we only truly become
cognitive of this matter when we see
Allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala
then according to these same group of
Scholars and they said that the second
level that an individual a achieve and
attains it is what is known as Al what
is known as Al realizing that Allah
subhana waala is watching and monitoring
and you know having written down every
single thing that you do say hear and
feel and this is known as Al this is
when an individual he realizes that he
does not see Allah subhana wa tala but
then he also realizes that Allah subhana
wa ta'ala knows every single thing that
he does as well and this is known
as and they say that the signs of this
level are also two number one the
General Drive behind I is fear the
General Drive behind I is fear so that
he will start doing a lot of actions
with a high quality of worship but the
main emotion behind it is going to be
driven by fear and then number two
unlike number one where there will be
very very few people that attain such a
level this level will actually have a
lot of people that are able to attain it
that the Iman will fluctuate regularly
to this level and come down as well it
will regularly Excel to this level and
come down as well so there will be more
people that achieve this level in
contrast to the first one in contrast to
the first one now talking about Al this
is also something that our predecessors
used to practice themselves Al is
something that they used to practice
themselves taking them own selves to
account for the things that you used to
do so if you look inside under the
biography
of IM
narrates says and from some of the
predecessors were those that were able
to count their own words those that were
able to count their own words this was
the statement
of he comments on the statement by
saying that this is none other than
himself that is speaking about himself
that he was able to count the words that
he spoke he was able to count the words
that he spoke and Subhan Allah if you I
mean I want everyone to try this one day
try to just spend like a quarter of a
day counting the amount of words that
you speak just try to count the words
that you speak the average man he will
speak somewhere between 12 to 15,000
words per day that's per the whole day
and the average woman she will speak
somewhere between 21 to 25,000 words per
day
no this is not something to laugh at
this the way that Allah T created us
that we express our emotions differently
but it's a reality now can you imagine
for each day that you're alive this is
how many words you're averaging and then
you can imagine that on the day of
judgment if Allah subh wants to make our
Reckoning very difficult he holds a
slave accountable for each and every
single word that he says and that is
when you can see that someone's
Reckoning literally could take years an
individual that was negligent of Salah
Allah will instead hold him to account
then he will hold him account to each
and every word and that is when it can
take years so this concept of was
something that the predecessors used to
practice themselves that each day you
know keep a list of how many Good Deeds
you're doing how many sins you committed
how many words you're speaking and this
is when the concept of actually comes
into play that the slave starts to
realize Subhan Allah every single thing
that I say and do is actually being
written down and more importantly being
witnessed by Allah subhah wa ta'ala and
that is the effect that Al actually has
and that is why it is so driven by fear
because he starts to realize that one
day he's going to stand in front of
Allah subhana wa taala and he will have
to justify every single thing that he
saw that he ate that he did that he
heard and that he wrote down all of this
is being documented so that he can be
held accountable for it and that is when
the slave starts to worship Allah subhah
wa ta'ala out of fear when he starts to
worship Allah subhana tala out of fear
so that was the opinion of and they said
that these two terms are actually two
different terms that the messenger of
Allah sallallahu alaihi wasallam is
referring to then you get a second camp
and this second Camp is headed by IM
anwi is headed by IM nawi and the second
Camp says that no they're referring to
the exact same thing they're referring
to the exact same thing and that is the
concept of Al that is the concept of Al
and they actually give an example the
second Camp actually gives an example
they say imagine that servants Gather in
front of a king they gather in front of
a king what is it that will keep the
servants obedient and respectful towards
the king is it that they are able to see
the king or is it that the king is able
to see them and they say that the slave
should Ponder this so you ponder it for
a little while the conclusion that they
come to is that they are respectful and
they are obedient to the king because
the king is able to see them and it has
nothing to do with the fact that they
can see the king and they go on to prove
this even further they say that take the
example of a blind individual take the
example of a blind individual this
individual can never see the king but
does this prevent him from showing
obedience and from being respectful no
it doesn't cuz even though he is unable
to see he is recognizes the fact that
the king is able to see him that the
king is able to see him so the second
Camp which is headed by by IM they said
no that this whole concept of is
referring to that Allah subhana wa tala
is watching the slaves and that is what
makes them fearful and obedient what
that is what makes them fearful and
obedient and in all honesty if you were
to look at this example this example is
very deficient this example is very
deficient because they give a very real
life example and for Allah subhana wa
tala is the highest example in our
concept of seeing Allah subhana wa
ta'ala we're not talking about
physically seeing Allah subhana wa tala
whereas they are making on something
which is physically being seen so the
example is very weak and Allah subhana T
Knows Best But opinion number one is
actually stronger opinion number one is
actually stronger the third Point
related to this section of the Hadith is
that here is the messenger of Allah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam actually
telling us that we can see Allah subhana
wa tala in this life because the
messenger of Allah sallallahu alaihi
wasallam clearly says it is to worship
Allah subhah wa ta'ala as though you can
see him so can we extract from this part
of the Hadith that we can see Allah
subhana wa in this life and the answer
to that is no because the messenger of
Allah sallallahu alaihi wasallam makes
it very very clear in the second part of
the Hadith that even though you cannot
see him know that he sees you even
though you cannot see him know that you
know that he sees you and this is very
clear in the Quran as well when Allah
subhana
tells that you will never ever see me in
this life and the only time the people
will get to see Allah subhana wa tala
physically is in the Hereafter that the
slaves of Allah subhana wa taala will
get to see Allah subhana wa taala
physically in the Hereafter so those
heretical groups that try to prove that
one can see Allah subhana wa ta'ala
through this Hadith will use the first
part of the Hadith ignoring the second
part whereas an individual who was you
know pure upon his understanding of
Islam will take the text as a whole will
take the text as a and not just take
parts of it so this is not a proof that
one can see Allah subhana wa tala in
this world now what this leads into is a
secondary discussion is that even though
one cannot see Allah subhana wa T
physically in this world is it that one
can see Allah subhana wa ta'ala with his
heart is it possible that Allah subhana
wa taala can be seen through an
individual's heart and this goes into
the Linguistics of the Arabic language
when you look at the word when you look
at the word which is used to see you
will notice that can actually be one can
be two types of
seeing
and that this is the viewing or
witnessing with the heart and the
viewing and witnessing of the eyes so
with the eyes it is not possible but now
what is being argued over here is that
can Allah subhana wa tala be seen with
the heart and this is something that you
know is a very controversial topic and
goes into a lot of detail and its fruits
are very very little its fruits are very
very little so we're not going to go
into too much detail but we should know
that there is a difference of opinion on
this matter and the defining line is
that a person should aim foran at all
times should aim foran at all times that
you aim for and you aim for and that you
excel in all things and for me I think
this is like in my personal opinion the
dividing line between our failure and
our success that alhamdulillah as
Muslims we're able to do lots of
projects we have a lot of things going
on we're building schools we're building
mid you know we're taking care of the
needy and the poor we're fasting we're
breaking people's fast all things a
whole bunch of things are happening
alhamdulillah but what is the defining
line between our success and our failure
is this concept ofan that we fail to
prepare and we fail to give it its due
time and we want results right away and
when you look at the concept ofan you'll
notice that the way the messenger of
Allah sallallahu alaihi wasallam was
taught
was over a very long period of time that
Revelation took 23 years to be completed
and the reason why it took so long is
because change it takes time it doesn't
happen overnight and I believe that this
defining factor that if we were to focus
on this that each day just look at
yourself how are you becoming a better
individual just before you go to bed ask
yourself this question how did I become
a better qu a better person today you
know what is something new that I
learned today and if someone lives with
this
ambition you will notice change in that
person's life but a person that does not
ask this question how did I become a
better person today he will live his
life just like the average person not
having any Focus not having any
direction so this concept ofan is
actually the driving force between
success and failure and an individual
that wants to be successful let him aim
foran let him do good towards other
people at the highest level of
Excellency and he will be successful but
an individual that does not strive and
aim for then this person he may fail he
may pass but he'll be somewhere in the
between at best he will be mediocre he
will not excel at that time he will not
excel at that time so now let's go on to
the next part let us go on to the next
part he said uh inform me about the hour
inform me about the hour
now jel over here is asking the
messenger of Allah sallallahu alaihi
wasallam about the hour and what's
interesting about this part is that in
contrast to the rest of the Hadith jiel
has a different intention behind asking
this question jiel has a different
intention behind asking this question so
what was the intention of jiel in asking
the previous questions can anyone tell
me think about it a little what was ji's
intention behind asking the previous
questions go
ahead excellent it is to teach the
sahabah it is to teach the sahab so the
sah they have a general understanding of
these Concepts but they don't know the
specifics so J is coming to ask these
questions so that the specifics may be
taught to them now when jiel is asking
this question when is the hour his
intention completely changes and the
intention behind this question now is to
avoid to make the people avoid asking
this question any further as you can see
throughout the S of the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam and in the
Quran the beds always used to come to
the messenger of Allah sahu alai
wasallam and ask
him that when is the sign when is the
day of judgment when is the day of
judgment so through their frequently
asking this question jiel comes to ask
this question now so that they won't ask
this question anymore because jiel knows
that the messenger of Allah sallallahu
alaihi wasallam does not have knowledge
of this and him being the messenger of
Allah he will make it very clear to jiel
and to all the people listening that I
do not know when the hour is that I do
not know when the hour is and then it
moves on to the second part that he
wants to educate them about something
that is more important something that is
more important and that is an individual
preparing himself for his personal hour
an individual preparing himself for his
personal hour and before we continue I
just want to backtrack a little bit I
forgot to mention one Hadith which is
what is the effect that has what is the
effect thatan has on an individual Inari
there's a Nar there's a narration that
Allah subhana waala he hears his slaves
saying Subhan Allah alhamdulillah and
Allah abbar while they are traveling on
the roads so Allah subhana wa ta'ala he
sends down the angels and he is more
knowledgeable of this he SS down the
angels and he asks them go and see what
my slaves are doing the the Angels come
back and report to Allah subhana wa
taala that they they're saying Subhan
Allah alhamdulillah and allahar and
they're praising you then Allah subhana
wa T asks them can my slaves see me that
they're praising me while they are
traveling and the angels respond no they
cannot see you then Allah subhana T asks
them and how would they be if they were
able to see me how would they be if they
were able to see me they said oh Allah
they would strive even harder in
worshiping you they would strive even
harder in worshiping you so two lessons
are brought from this Hadith that are
very very apparent that number one it is
a very good attribute to start up that
when an individual is traveling he
frequents the remembrance of Allah
subhana wa tala by saying Subhan Allah
alhamdulillah and allahar so while
you're on the road you're stuck at a red
light you're going on a long journey and
there's just silence in the car then
busy yourself with the remembrance of
Allah subhana wa tala number two Allah
subhana wa taala makes it very very
clear the effect that it would have if
the slaves of Allah subhana wa ta'ala
were able to see Allah subhana wa taala
and that is that they would strive even
harder to worship Allah subhana wa taala
now get's get back to the signs of the
day of judgment that jel he asks this
question so that the sahabah will stop
asking the messenger of Allah sallu Al
wasallam when is the day of judgment
when is the day of judgment and the
messenger of Allah as we will come to
see he makes it very very clear about
his knowledge but what is important over
here is that jiel is indirectly teach
teaching a very very important lesson
that when the day of judgment is going
to take place is absolutely irrelevant
it can happen in our lifetime it cannot
happen in our lifetime when it happens
is absolutely irrelevant but what is
important is that when is our individual
hour when is our individual hour meaning
when will each individual die and what
has he prepared for it what has he
prepared for it and you see this in two
separate incidents incident number one a
bedwin man comes to the messenger of
Allah sallallahu alaihi wasallam and he
says y one is the day of judgment and he
says that do not worry about the day of
judgment but worry about this young boy
for if he is to get older then your
personal hour would have come that your
that your personal hour as a group it
would have come meaning that you guys
would have gotten old and you guys would
have died and are being ready or
prepared to being questioned in the
grave and by Allah subhana wa tala so
make your personal preparation for it
and then the messenger of allaham in the
second Hadith makes it completely
explicit beyond a shadow of a doubt that
a bed one man comes he asks when is the
hour the messenger of Allah sallallahu
alaihi wasallam clearly
responds that what have you prepared for
it that don't worry about when the hour
is but worry about what have you
prepared for the hour what have you
prepared for the hour and that is what
the slave should always be conscious of
that when we are ask this question and
we study the signs of the day of
judgment you know what is the purpose
behind it it is to remind us that this
is a reality that we are living Allah
has given us these signs to remind us
that truly without a shadow of a doubt
one day we will stand in front of Allah
subhana wa tala and we will be
questioned so what have we prepared for
that day what have we prepared for that
day so now the messenger of Allah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam he goes on
to uh say that the one that is
questioned does not have more
knowledgeable that does not have more
knowledge than the questioner the one
that is questioned does not have more
knowledge than the questioner and here
in the different narrations if you were
to look at it the messenger of Allah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam didn't just
respond with this statement but in the
narration of bukari he actually recites
the verse in Surah L where he mentions
that only there are five types of
knowledge that are exclusively with
Allah subhana five types of knowledge
that are exclusively with Allah subhana
wa tala what are those five types of
knowledge is anyone
no that was very good I was expecting
someone over here to answer but you did
a good job mallah fantastic so number
one that Allah subana has knowledge of
the day of judgment when it will take
place he has the when it will take place
number two is that Allah subhana wa tala
has knowledge of what is in the wombs
Allah subhana wa tal has knowledge of
what is in the wombs number three that
Allah subhana wa tala has knowledge of
when the rain will descend and when the
rain will descend number three number
four Allah subhana wa tala has knowledge
what will be the risk of the slave that
what where and where he will get his
risk that knowledge is with Allah
subhana wa tala alone and number five
the fifth and last type of knowledge is
that where will the slave die only Allah
subana wa tala knows that knowledge so
in the second narration which is
mentioned in alkari the messenger of
Allah sallallahu alaihi wasallam recited
the verse from Surah L that it is only
Allah subhana wa ta'ala that has
knowledge of the day of judgment now a
further point that is elucidated over
here is how the messenger of Allah
sallallah alai wasallam does not have
all knowledge how the messenger of Allah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam does not have
all knowledge for those of you who are
familiar with
the it is a very famous poem that is
recited usually in the month of R you
know celebrating the birth of the
messenger of Allah sallallahu alai
wasallam from the verses of this poem
is and that from your knowledge is the
knowledge of the and the which wrote the
meaning that from your knowledge is the
knowledge of everything that exists and
obviously this is an exaggeration in the
Praises of the messenger of Allah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam that is not
allowed that is not allowed because here
it is clearly shown that the messenger
of Allah sallallah alaihi wasallam does
not even have knowledge of the day of
judgment and he also makes clear that
those five specific types of knowledge
are for Allah subhah wa taala alone are
for Allah subhana alone now the wise
questioner will ask what is the
relationship
between and between this question being
asked by jiel and this is a question I
want to ask the audience what is the
relationship between J's previous
question of what isan with J's next
question what what are the signs of the
day of judgment what are the signs of
the day of judgment who can tell me what
the relationship between those two
things
is and I'll take a nice water break
inshallah so let's go in order number
one go ahead this that I I believe
that because of isan and this the signs
of the Judgment I the last day is the
fears to the Allah tala how the people
recognize Allah's Allah's
for this so isan is as you mentioned
that the two fears and the loves both
will be together and uh the the love
comes uh if he realize the
fear if I understand you correctly
you're halfway there that but that's if
I understood you correctly uh who had
yeah go ahead next uh so what the
previous talking about s was talking
about um seeing Allah and if Allah can
see
you uh and we said that it was about
wanting Allah's reward the voiding his
punishment which will be meded out on
the day
of you're like at the same position as
he is go
ahead fantastic what about it though
okay we're like halfway there now
alhamdulillah go ahead can be that
people who are at the level
of the level only those people can
understand the
realities and can understand the signs
you're getting into like Freemason stuff
now no I understand where you're going I
understand where you're going but that's
very good that's a point that I didn't
think of at all but you're very close
now to give you want one last answer go
ahead
Jud Allah us any indication when Jud
will be
leave so from is not to get into it okay
that's a very good point but that's not
what I'm looking for I saw you had your
hand up I'll give you a chance as well
go ahead you didn't have your hand up
you're okay okay I'll take you want to
take itas go ahead last one then believe
in the first part is uh Allah is giving
the knowledge to wasam yeah to know
about some
things I
mean all these things but the second
part
Allah did not give know
to
any okay so that is one angle of looking
at the relationship but that's not the
angle I'm looking for that's very good
though the angle that I'm looking for
we're not going to take any more hands
we're going to stay here all night the
angle that I am looking for is that if
you look at the previous section he says
tell me about he responds by saying it
is to worship Allah subhana waala as
though you can see him and even though
you cannot see him know that he sees you
so when we were talking about how is an
individual able to see Allah subhana wa
tala what does Al actually mean Al mus
means that he can see the signs of Allah
subhana wa taala all around him and from
the signs that Allah T has created is
the signs of you know the alternation
the day of the night you know a child
being born you know the the rain coming
down these are all signs from Allah
subhana wa ta'ala but a second category
of signs that Allah subhana wa T has
created are the signs of the day of
judgment so if you want to see the of
Allah subhana wa taala look at how the
signs of the day of judgment are
actually coming into is the relationship
between J's question of what isan
leading into the signs of the day of
judgment that when people when we talk
about seeing Allah subhana wa taala and
being cognitive of Allah subhana wa tala
it is being cognitive that Allah has
informed us in advance that these things
will happen and then actually looking
out for these signs that wow are these
things actually taking place or not are
these things actually taking place or
not we move on to one last Point related
to this section which is when the
messenger of Allah sallallahu alaihi
wasallam tells us that the questioner
does not have more knowledge than the
questioned
IM he emphasizes something very very
greatly over here and he says that it is
upon the Muslim to frequent the say
statement of Allah knows best it is to
frequent the statement of Allah knows
best that as a human being you are not
required to answer every single question
you are asked you're not required to
come up with an answer for everything so
if you are doubtful about something say
I do not know if you have sh in
something say I do not know and it is
only when you are truly certain of
something that you should actually
answer it and he goes on to emphasize
this fact that when im Malik was asked
you know 40 odd questions for 40
straight answers he kept on saying Allah
knows best I do not know Allah knows
best I do not know Allah knows best I do
not know if this is you know the likes
of one of the great imams of the
predecessors who had permission from
over 70 of his teachers to give fatwa
then how about the average individual
that when he's asked a question about
Islam he should not think that he's
required to give an answer but only
answer that question which you're
absolutely certain if you are not
certain of it there's no shame there's
no harm in saying I do not know for if
the messenger of Allah s alai wasam the
most knowledgeable the most individual
that has the most TAA can say I do not
know then where is the shame in
ourselves us being asked a question that
we have no knowledge of saying I do not
know so this is like a reminder for
myself and all of us that IM emphasizes
that we should get into the habit of
saying I do not know that Allah knows
best and from the practicers you'll
actually see that they used to say that
this statement of
is actually half of knowledge that an
individual that answers all the
questions you know that he's not
knowledgeable he's just making things up
and there's actually a funny story
that he mentions in that an individual
he used to live amongst the people that
didn't know very much and he had a
little bit of knowledge and he wanted to
deceive the people so every time someone
would come and ask him a question he
would always answer to them that there's
two opinions on this matter and he would
say that here's one side of it and
here's the other side of it always
saying these two things until eventually
the people caught on to this until
eventually the people called on to this
and one man comes and he makes up a word
I can't even remember what the the word
was it was like what was it or something
along those lines they make up a word
and they ask him oh what does this word
mean and he starts mentioning how that
this is a small tree that grows in the
mountains of Yemen and starts giving a
long explanation thinking that the
people will not look into this but that
man says oh man fear Allah for I made
this word up right now and this shows
you that an individual gets into the
habit of answering all questions this is
what it leads to start you know lying
upon the dean of Allah subhana wa ta'ala
without any shame so one should not feel
any shame in saying I do not know so now
the messenger of Allah sallallahu alaihi
wasallam is asked a further question he
says that inform me about the signs
thereof inform me of what the signs of
the day of judgment actually are now
jiel over here is asking this question
again to educate the audience to educate
the audience of the signs of the day of
judgment to instill inside of them the
concept of to increase their IM because
that is what the signs of the day of
judgment are actually all about it's not
about dwelling into conspiracy theories
but it's about increasing one's own IM
that when you see the signs of the day
of judgment then you actually start to
realize that Subhan Allah Allah subhana
wa TAA definitely spoke the truth and he
definitely sent a messenger Muhammad
sallallahu alaihi wasallam because they
informed Med us of this 1,400 years ago
they informed us of this 1400 years ago
so then he goes on to mention the first
sign he goes on to mention the first
sign and that is that they are the that
the slave girl will give birth to her
master that they are the slave girl will
give birth to her
master now the scholars of the past day
the most opinions you'll see explaining
this Hadith is seven so this section of
the Hadith is explaining seven
opinions he actually breaks it down into
four opinions and for our sake of
discussion we will break it down into
two opinions we will break it down into
two opinions just so we understand the
concept so concept number one the
general premise is that knowledge will
be lost that is the general premise of
opinion number one that all knowledge
will be lost and the way the scholars
explained how knowledge will be lost is
that people will take place in Haram
transactions people will take place in
Haram transaction
what is that Haram transaction that they
will bu buy or purchase their own mother
for slavery they will buy and purchase
their own mother for slavery now what
used to happen in the past is that when
the Muslims used to go out for war they
were able to take uh the slave girls as
slaves and copulate with them and
children would be born and if children
were born that woman would become free
and he said that people would become so
ignorant that they would stop freeing
you know that woman and that the the
woman the the child would become free
but the mother wouldn't or they said
that this woman she would be sold while
she is pregnant and thus when she is
being sold around she is eventually born
her child is the one that will
eventually purchase her and use her for
slavery so the general concept behind
opinion number one is that all knowledge
of Islam will be lost and people will
partake in impermissible transactions
opinion number two and this is the
opinion that promoted and that is that
people children and part particular will
become very very abusive towards their
parents they will become very very
abusive towards their parents whereas
the general case scenario is that you
know the parent will dictate to the
child do this and don't do that that the
sign will come where the children will
start saying that do this and don't do
that now if you look inside um the
explanation of IM 4 Hadith by Jamal zbo
he brings a very you know interesting
contrast he says that if you look at the
two signs that are mentioned in this
Hadith if you look at the two signs that
are mentioned in the Hadith that
children being disrespectful towards
their parents and you know barefooted
bedwin men you know competing with one
another to build buildings he says one
is a sign for the West another one is a
sign for the East whereas if you look at
the East there were nothing but bed ons
Allah gave them oil and gave them money
and now they're competing with one
another to build these buildings and you
look at the West that there were a
civilization that was one very
respectful and once caring towards their
parents but now it is the children who
have started to dominate the
relationship that if a a parent was to
ever lay a hand upon their child then
all of a sudden this parent is very
abusive they're locked up in jail and
there are a whole bunch of other
repercussions whereas if the child was
to do something you know the child might
get a SL a slap on the hand maybe get
some detention maybe get a couple of
hours of community service but no real
repercussion takes place so he brought a
very clear contrast that subh is very
interesting that one is assigned for the
East and one is a sign for the West so
he promotes the second sign that uh
there the second opinion sorry that this
opinion being that the children will
start to dictate the relationship that
rather than the children fear the
parents and being respectful of the
parents it is now the parents that
become fearful of the children and you
know Listen and Obey the children and
this is something Subhan Allah very
scary CU as young people in this room as
we become parents you know it's scary to
think that what our children are going
to do to us and it's just a man further
manifestation of how we are towards our
own parents you know if we do not show
the love and respect that Islam has
honored our parents with how do we
expect to receive the same thing from
our children and it's a very scary
thought Subhan Allah may Allah protect
us
all then he goes on to the second sign
the second sign and that is that you
will see the barefooted ones the ones
that are inappropriately dressed the
destitute the herdsmen of sheep
competing with one another to build
lofty buildings competing with one
another to build lofty buildings now
what's interesting about this is IM who
died in 671 he says we saw this in our
times we saw this in our times now I I
you know I don't know what type of
buildings were being built in 671 I'm
assuming maybe like three stories most
four stories most you can imagine what
they would say about you know the
buildings of our times you go to the
example of you know the borish Khalifa
you go to the example of the Tower you
know now there's a new one being built I
can't remember where it was I think it
was in jeda the one mile building in
jeda one mile building you know Subhan
Allah he said build me a building so
that I can reach the skies you know you
it's sad to see that that building that
wanted is being built in our times now
this is not to say that you know
building high buildings is Haram within
of itself that is not the point of this
Hadith not that is not the point we're
trying to achieve as well but the point
of this section of the Hadith is that
the wrong people are being placed in
power and are given the wealth or being
put in charge of the wealth that the the
people who who don't know how to you
know use their Authority and the people
who don't know how to you know use their
wealth they're the ones that are being
given the authority and they are the
ones that are being given the wealth
this is not to say that building
buildings is Haram but it's to show that
all trust will be lost that people who
do not deserve the authority they are
the ones that will be put in charge and
this is you know again from the signs of
our are times that you look at a land
that was completely dute as this Hadith
is mentioning they were shepherds they
used to look after sheep they used to
walk Barefoot you know they they
wouldn't have an issue of not covering
themselves and then Allah subhana wa T
blesses them with money and now all of a
sudden literally within a span of 50
years they are the ones that are
competing with one another one Prince
builds one building the next Prince has
to build a larger building and this is a
signs of the time that our IM should
increase that Subhan Allah the messenger
of sallallahu alaihi wasallam mentioned
this 14400 years ago so that is the
second sign that the messenger of Allah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam mentions now
to conclude off this Hadith to conclude
off this Hadith he says thereupon the
man went off thereupon the man went off
I waited a while and then he the
messenger of Allah sallallahu alaihi
wasallam said oh Omar do you know who
the questioner was I replied Allah and
his messenger sallallahu alaihi wasallam
no better he said that was jiel he came
to teach you your Dean that was jiel he
came to teach you your Dean now this
last portion of the Hadith it's actually
uh a significant you know section but
there's a lot of difference in the
wording of the Hadith so in the wording
of it is very clear that only a short
amount of time went by that the
messenger of Allah sallallahu alaih
wasallam told the audience that this was
jiel that came to ask those questions
but if you to look at other narrations
such as the the narration of Abu it
shows that the messenger of Allah s Al
wasallam only told om three days after
that if you know the way that om sought
the Hadith that after this man left the
sahab dispersed so Omar went back to his
house and he used to change days with
his neighbor the next day his neighbor
came no knowledge was given and it was
only the third day when Omar went back
that Omar found out that it was jiel
that came to the messenger of Allah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam now why is
this significant why is this significant
it is because of the way the messenger
of Allah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
interacted with the man that came it is
the way that the messenger of Allah s
alaihi wasallam interacted with the man
that came that the messenger of allahi
wasallam from what we understand from
this Hadith for the vast majority of
this interaction did not actually know
that it was jiel that came did not
actually know that it was jiel that came
but rather it was later on that jiel
made himself appearance to the messenger
of sallallahu alaihi wasallam and that
is when the messenger of Allah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam actually
found out that it was jiel another point
of Interest over here is that the
messenger of Allah sallallahu alaihi
wasallam even though he is the one
answering the questions he attributes
the teaching to jiel he says that jiel
is the one that came to teach you your
religion and what the scholars derived
from this section of the Hadith is that
the one that has the intention to pose
an intelligent question to educate the
people has a share in the reward as the
teacher as the messenger of Allah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam
says that the one who you know indicates
or directs a person to goodness is gets
the same amount of reward as the person
who does it himself as the person who
does it himself so here this is why the
messenger of Allah wasallam attributed
to J that he came to teach you your Dean
now the third and last point is that the
messenger of Allah sallallahu alaihi
wasallam summarized this narration as
the dean
itself that he came to teach you your
Dean so here the messenger of Allah
sallu alai is saying that if you want to
understand the you know a holistic view
of Islam then it is found in this Hadith
of ji that if you want to look at the
levels of
fluctuation uh that a m will have that a
Believer will have if you want to look
at how a person can enter into Islam if
you want to look at how a person can
raise his IM all of this is found in the
Hadith of
and the messenger of allaham also
teaches us what will be the difference
between success and failure and that
will Bean the messenger of Allah wasam
also teaches us in this Hadith that more
important than the signs of the day of
judgment or the day of judgment itself
is what have you prepared for it the
messenger of allaham teaches us in this
Hadith that the believer should always
look at the world around him because
these are all from the signs of Allah
subhana wa tala so he should be
cognitive of the world around him and
should not always be isolated and you
know just dealing with his own Affairs
so the messenger of allaham describes
this Hadith as a holistic view of the
dean as a holistic view of the de and
with that we conclude theith of and next
week we will do Hadith number three and
Hadith number four so we would have
completed the first five Hadith because
we did Hadith number five when we did
the conclusion of Hadith number one as
well so next week we'll do Hadith number
three and four and we would have
completed five Hadith and then we'll be
taking a break
as Hass will be doing uh a workshop on
the of Ramadan and the F of fasting and
preparing for the month of Ramadan and
then after Ramadan I'll be continuing on
with the IM till we
conclude so we'll conclude with
that and we will take questions go ahead
a question about when
said see
I
think saw Allah I think Arabic and then
when explanation of the
says right so my question is what does
that that because you know theh went he
just T light right so why did he say
this is going to open up a kind of worms
but in studying this Hadith one of the
things you'll actually learn is that it
is attributed to the prophet wasallam
that he saw allaha twice with his heart
that he saw Allah subhana wa tala twice
with his heart now this is something
that the scholars with pretty much
consent this was something that was
exclusive for the messenger of Allah it
can never be attained by anyone else so
the reality of this affair what does it
mean to see Allah subhana wa tala with
one's heart Allah subhana wa tala knows
the reality of it
but she commented on thei of abdah that
said that whoever claims that the
messenger of saw him with his eyes has
light so it was clear that he never saw
him with his eyes but in terms of what
is the significance of him seeing Allah
subhana t with his heart and what does
that mean this is you know something
that is beyond my knowledge I haven't
read any scholarly commentary on it and
I believe that you know only the
messenger and Allah knows best go ahead
question is regarding the last five
words you said
as
well
said
right what is the ruling if someone ask
me a question I
said right so the general concept the
general concept is that during the life
of the messenger ofam that is what the
sah used to
say because Revelation was still coming
down so the messenger of allaham he
spoke in Revelation uh when he spoke
about the de either through Hadith or
through the Quran as both of them were
Revelation and when the prophet wasam
passed away they stopped saying that
they used to just say Allah and this is
what you see in the statement of IM
Malik that he said Allah and used to say
that that you know Allah is you know
half of the de or half of knowledge so
during the lifetime of the Prophet they
used to say it because Revelation was
coming down after that they didn't say
it because they didn't make sense
anymore the messenger of Allah wasallam
has passed away and his knowledge has
you know left with him so for our sake
it would be incorrect to
say and we should just say that Allah
subh knows
best if someone ask a question the
question yeah the prophet already know
the answer anyway because he is the most
knowled of the no that that is obviously
not the case because he would have to
wait for Revelation to come down so
there are certain matters of the de that
he only knew because Revelation came
down to him so to attribute ultimate
knowledge of the de to the messenger of
allahi wasallam is in correct but to
attribute knowledge that we need to know
then that is something the messenger had
to have known and had to have taught us
so you see the difference between the
two so there are certain things as
Muslims we need to know that they are
compulsory for our faith like how many
times a day we need to pray or how many
sunnas they are because we need to get
closer to Allah subhana wa tala but what
is the exact number of wings that jiel
had it has very little you know effect
on our IM even though this is a part of
our Dean because jel is the carrier of
Revelation it is a subsidiary type of
knowledge so in such a situation when
someone want to ask you and this is
something that the messenger did ask but
it was answered sorry but let's just say
you know what color was jiel you know
let's just go that far this something
the messeng to the best of my knowledge
was never asked nor did he ever answer
so this type of knowledge to say that
Allah and his messengeri wasallam know
best it could be correct it could be
incorrect right because there's
something that wasn't pertinent to our
faith whereas something that is
pertinent to our faith you can say Allah
and his messenger know best but we
always mention that the way of our
predecessors is always the safest way
and if the predecessor is always
answered with Allah knows best that is
something that we should suffice with as
well a did you have something yeah yeah
so when you're commenting
about
yes um you said that Muslim doesn't have
to answer every question that's CLS to
him are there any questions that he does
have to answer
so this goes under the section of of
hiding knowledge so a person asks you a
question and you know you're too busy on
your phone or something and he's like
brother can you teach me how to do woo
and you're like no I'm playing you know
Angry Birds on my phone right now this
is a major form of so this is something
that he would have to answer because if
he's certain of how to perform W it is
upon him to teach the person that is
genuinely asking on how to perform but
what if you ask something like what thep
of
then this is where a person needs to
have in his Dean you know
abdah um he talks about the right that
Allah he tells in the
Quan right he says that they are the
ones that teach the people the small
matters before they teach them the big
matters so you can be a judge if this
person is at a level where he needs to
know what a weak Hadith is and the types
of weak Hadith are go ahead and teach it
to them but if he's a person that's
still struggling on how to pray it does
not make sense to teach him the
categories of weak Hadith so you use
your own over here think you have to do
it or no you don't have to do because
you have to use your F over here that if
you feel that what you answer will cause
more problems for him you shouldn't
teach it to him but rather focus on
teaching him what is more important to
him make sense go
ahead
sorry where did God come from how do you
think you should answer that question
where should you how should you answer
that
question sorry nevern he was never born
okay that's one way of answering it I
would change this question around and I
would ask the individual what are you
trying to achieve by this question and
then I would change the direction in
that way a lot of times when people ask
these questions it's not because they
genuinely want this knowledge it's one
of two things number one they just want
to frustrate you to make you seem that
you can't answer these questions or
number two they're being inspired by
Shan that Shan is playing with their
minds and that time you tell them look
brother
say go perform and in you'll get your
answer you know that's how you deal that
that situation and Allah knows best go
ahead uh isan the pursuit of perfection
or is it Perfection itself because can
Perfection actually be attained because
Perfection is not doing something once
it is staying at that level as Aristotle
said you mentioned in that that that
level of im or that Excellence that you
get that it's the point you cannot just
one second go ahead so you mentioned
that this person cannot stay at this
point and cannot remain sinless but is
it how does one know that when is it
okay to fail or to when is it okay to
drop down is it should you always remain
pursuing it or is it okay to be fine
with where you are content you should
never be content with where you are that
is a general concept never be content
with where you are and you're always
striving for excellence but at the same
time you have to be realistic as well
that you are not an angel at the end of
the day you're meant to commit sin so
that you can perform Toba from it so you
always keep striving hard and then you
realize that you will dip and then when
that dip happens you repent back to
Allah subhana wa taala and you keep
striving higher now what is an important
point over here is what the messenger of
Allah wasallam called the fatra and what
he referred to as the fat is the dip
that I'm referring to and he says that
all of the Believers will have a dip and
whoever's dip is in accordance to my
Sunnah he will stay safe and whoever's
dip is outside of my Sunnah then he is
destroyed what this Hadith actually
means is if you look at an individual
that struggles with his IM right so
let's take the act of Salah Salah is of
three types you have the Salah you have
your Sunnah prayers and you have your na
prayers an individual that's doing all
three he's doing his his his and his na
when his IM goes down he loses his his
na prayers and he can gain that back an
individual that's just doing his far
than Sunnah his IM goes down he loses
his Sunnah prayers his far is still
there right and now the individual that
is just doing his far prayers when his
Iman goes down what's left nothing is
left whatsoever and that is why the
messenger of allaham mentions that
whoever's F whoever whoever's dip is in
accordance to my Sunnah he will be saved
because the Sunnah goes down the f is
still there but whoever is just holding
on to the F and his IM goes down he's
lost his Islam at the end of the day and
that is why when we talk about the sun
prayers it's not just about seeking
extra reward it's about protecting
yourself from the traps of Shan and
protect your as well and Allah knows
best go ahead brother from his question
yeah I got question from my teacher he
said he was a musim he said is and I
said right and he said no you're
wrong I said Allah is everywhere he said
you're wrong but he never told me the
right
answer it's very possible that he me he
wanted you to say that Allah is nowhere
that he exists with bam that's possible
that what he was looking for but in such
a question I would suggest that Muslims
not get into this question it is a as a
question that the Muslims are not
prepared to answer so right I mean if
you look at the Times the messenger of
asked this question Allah it was less
than three times there only like three
documented cases where the messenger of
allaham asked this question and the
wisdom behind the messenger of asking
this question out of the three cases it
was to see is this person a Believer or
not that ises this familiar with the
Quran or not it was never to Doan it was
never to test the person you know what
does he say about where is Allah subhana
wa tala so this question while it is a
question that is posed by the messenger
of allahi wasallam we never see this
question ever being asked again by the
sahabah or by the after them because it
was a question that is not befitting
because it leads a question it leads the
the person being questioned and matters
that he may not be qualified to answer
so when Allah subhana T tells us
what is the point that we're that is
meant to be you know derived from this
verse Allah mentions this concept of at
least seven times in the Quran the point
that is being derived over here is that
it isman that it is Allah subhana wa
tala the most merciful that is a highest
uh you know above you and that his Mercy
is always descending upon you this is
the actual point of the verse it is not
to actually say that Allah subhana wa
tala did as one of his attributes yes
that is one of the lessons but this is
the lesson that the scholar specialized
in a would derive the lesson the average
Muslim wants to derive from this verse
is that the mercy of Allah subhana wa
taala is always descending upon us that
is the lesson the average Muslim wants
to drive from this verse so in such a
situation I think you learned a very
valuable lesson that people are not
always genuine when they ask you a
question especially if he's your teacher
I don't understand why he would give you
a question and not give you the answer
and the part of being a teacher is that
if you were to test your students if
they get something wrong you give them
the answer and this is why there's a a
very important that
says that it is not permissible to delay
teaching in times of necessity so if
I've placed a doubt in your mind it is
my responsibility to clarify your doubt
for you as well so may Allah help you
and that teacher I mean any other
questions we'll take two last questions
and then we'll stop inshallah go ahead
yeah I have a question respect to the
last the
yes so there are in the had there are
many other signs mentioned as well yes
especially
the are so my question is what is the
exclusive significance of these two
signs being
mentioned and what is the element of
teaching two sence because this go is
coming the flow of teaching right
excellent that is a very good question
so in terms of the signs of the day of
judgment they're clearly divided into
two the the minor signs of the day of
judgment and the major signs of the day
of judgment the major signs of the day
of judgment are those that will happen
quickly in succession towards the end of
time the minor signs of the day day of
judgment are things that we will start
to notice in our own routines now what
is the wisdom Behind These two signs
being mentioned in this Hadith Allah
subhana T knows best I really do not
know what the significance could be
Allah knows best I don't know and what
can be the El of teing in there the
element of teaching Allah knows best
again something I have to think about
inshallah if I get time I'll try to
think about it and I'll try to research
it as well and if I find something I'll
uh mention it next week but those are
very good
questions last
question
yeah correct
remember saying all you have WR that and
change it to a person so they were
saying so I'm just going to stop you for
one second what was the Dua that you're
saying that they
made a rich
person sh
okay okay so last week we were talking
about the types of and we said that
there are four types of right and only
one of them can't be changed so he said
the that cannot be changed is the that
is written in the L
right and then there are three other
types of that can be changed number one
was the that is written when you are
born and what are the four elements that
are written when a person is born from
them
is is he from the from the is someone
who or someone who is so this is
something that can be changed this is
not something that is set in stone right
based upon a person's he can be go from
you know being someone who to someone
who is so while this element is WR WR in
the final element that we do not know of
is written in the but through a person's
actions and through du a person can you
know go from the to the he can go from
the person who to a person who is does
that make sense and this is why in
thear um under the of when the messenger
of Allah s alai wasallam he clearly told
the that all of you have your place
destined for you already those of you
that are going to Jen and those of you
that are going to jahannam so one of the
companions he said y should we leave all
action and just re rely upon this and
then the messenger of said no he
said he said no but rather act for
indeed the destination you were created
for its actions will become easy for you
so part of making Dua to Allah subhana
waala is part of that am that oh Allah
make us from the and then you know won
make us from those who are so this is
part of the and Allah knows best we'll
conclude with
that and again we'll continue next week
at 7:30 p.m.